Feat(eos_designs): Emit warning when detecting eos_cli_config_gen keys while validating eos_designs (#6403)
aristanetworks/ansible-avd: docs/porting-guides/6.x.x.md

| `underlay_mutlticast` | `underlay_mutlticast_pim_sm` or `<node_type_key>.defaults.underlay_multicast.pim_sm.enabled` or `<node_type_key>.node_groups[].underlay_multicast.pim_sm.enabled` or `<node_type_key>.node_groups[].nodes[].underlay_multicast.pim_sm.enabled` or `<node_type_key>.nodes[].underlay_multicast.pim_sm.enabled` |
| `underlay_ospf_authentication.message_digest_keys[].key` | `underlay_ospf_authentication.message_digest_keys[].cleartext_key` |

### Warnings for eos_cli_config_gen keys in eos_designs input data

> Starting with AVD 6.0.0, warnings are emitted when top-level keys from the `eos_cli_config_gen` schema are found in the host_vars handed over to `eos_designs` role.

Author: ```suggestion
Starting with AVD 6.0.0, warnings are emitted when top-level keys from the `eos_cli_config_gen` schema are found in the input variables handed over to `eos_designs` role.
```

> These keys are ignored during `eos_cli_config_gen` processing when the role is used after `eos_designs` role.

Reviewer: But such keys are ignored by `eos_cli_config_gen` by default even if `eos_designs` is not ran first (unless `read_structured_config_from_file` is set to False). Should we clarify this?

Author: yes

Author: I added some precisions, let me know :)

> This new validation helps identify keys that will not have any effect, contrary to previous version. By default, these warnings are enabled to help users identify potential configuration issues and transition.

Author: ```suggestion
This new validation helps identify keys that will not have any effect, contrary to previous AVD versions. By default, these warnings are enabled to help users identify potential configuration issues during transition.
```

For detailed information about this behavior, recommended solutions, and examples, see the [documentation on using eos_cli_config_gen keys with eos_designs](../warn-eos-cli-config-keys-usage-in-eos-designs.md).

If you want to disable these warnings, you can set the `avd_eos_designs_warn_eos_cli_config_gen_keys` variable to `false`:

```diff
  - name: Build Configs
    hosts: FABRIC
    gather_facts: false
    tasks:
      - name: Generate AVD Structured Configurations and Fabric Documentation
        ansible.builtin.import_role:
          name: arista.avd.eos_designs
+       vars:
+         avd_eos_designs_warn_eos_cli_config_gen_keys: false
```

> !!! note

Reviewer 2: I don't think this note is needed since are referencing the detailed documentation above.

Author: indeed I was going back and forth but I feel like I will remove the intermediate page in the end

Author: removed the page

>     Even when warnings are disabled, the top-level `eos_cli_config_gen` keys in the input data will still be ignored during `eos_cli_config_gen` processing when run in conjunction with `eos_designs`.

Author: ```suggestion
    Even when the warnings are disabled, the top-level `eos_cli_config_gen` keys in the input data will still be ignored during `eos_cli_config_gen` processing when run in conjunction with `eos_designs`.
```

>     Even when the warnings are disabled, the top-level `eos_cli_config_gen` keys in the input data will still be ignored during `eos_cli_config_gen` processing when run in conjunction with `eos_designs`.

Author: This is technically not true until e merge Carl's PR

| `underlay_ospf_authentication.message_digest_keys[].key` | `underlay_ospf_authentication.message_digest_keys[].cleartext_key` |

### Using EOS Config inputs (`eos_cli_config_gen`) keys when running `eos_designs`

For several AVD major versions, it has been possible to use variables from the EOS Config (`eos_cli_config_gen`) data model in conjunction with variables from the AVD Design (`eos_designs`) data model.
When the `eos_designs` role runs, the EOS Config (`eos_cli_config_gen`) keys were ignored but they were read later by the `eos_cli_config_gen` role.

While this behavior could serve as a good escape hatch, it has led to confusion among users. Especially when new features introduced in `eos_designs` role ended up shadowing the EOS Config inputs intended for `eos_cli_config_gen`,
sometimes leading to configuration changes after a minor releases upgrade.

Starting with AVD 6.0, the `eos_designs` role emits warnings identifying the native EOS Config input keys being used at the top level of AVD Design input data.

> These keys are ignored during `eos_cli_config_gen` processing when the role is used after `eos_designs` role (except when running with `read_structured_config_from_file: false` is set when runnign `eos_cli_config_gen`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These keys are ignored during `eos_cli_config_gen` processing when the role is used after `eos_designs` role (except when `read_structured_config_from_file: false` is set when running `eos_cli_config_gen`).
```

The solutions to address such warning should be in order of priority:

1. Look at the newest models introduced in AVD Design (eos_designs) and use the relevant one if it exists.

> 2. If 1. is not possible, open an issue on Github describing your need and usecase and use custom structured configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. If 1. is not possible, open an issue on GitHub describing your use case and use custom structured configuration.
```
